because an ever-growing number of people
would like to extend the idea of animal
rights much further will kim laka a
professor of philosophy at queen's
university has even claimed quote that
some animals should be seen as forming
sovereign communities and that others
should be seen as full citizens of the
polity he means citizens like you and me
the Australian philosopher Peter singer
singers started it all in 1975 with his
book Animal Liberation what leads such
minds to embrace philosophical notions
so alien to the Western traditions of
individualism and responsibility
thinkers such as Kim liquor philosophy
solely on the grounds of pity singer
denounces speciesism and claims that we
should show equal respect to the lives
of human beings and animals all three
refused to distinguish between the claim
that we have responsibility to animals
and the claim that animals have rights
ah that new Yin in some ways the topic
of this video is a little bit
philosophic dancing difficult I'm going
to drop a few names you may not have
heard of before names of authors
political leaders who are significant in
veganism in the 21st century and in some
ways what we're dealing with here is
really so simple as to be fascinating
part of what makes the progress of
veganism as a movement unpredictable is
that vegans aren't just alienated from
politics ongoing in the mainstream media
ting discourse to a remarkable extent
vegans are alienated from the natural
sources of leadership that might give
the movement its direction these things
are obvious to vegans so obvious that
sometimes we forget about them and
chuckle at them and we're reminded of
them but they are bizarre surreal and
unexpected to people who are looking at
the vegan movement from the outside the
vast majority of vegans hate the Humane
Society of the United States he did it's
ridiculous it's surreal meters don't get
that for media so what do you mean the
an animal welfare group they're trying
to help animals they seem to represent
the same things you do no no intense
bitter hatred you can hear that on go
vegan radio some of the podcasts they
really lay into the humane society this
you know pent up anguish and resentment
from decades of conflict between
especially older vegans in the movement
and the humane society nowadays even if
we just stuck with that one example it
really is a great kind of cautionary
tale or red flag it's an instructive
example of why someone like Jordan
Peterson passing judgment from the
outside looking in really wouldn't know
what he was seeing wouldn't know how to
evaluate it and really just wouldn't
know what direction the vegan movement
is moving the vast majority of vegans I
think in 2017 hate petaa People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals PE ta petaa
um I feel it's safe to say right now
that the vast majority of informed
vegans begin to care about politics
despise the legacy of Peter Singer and
one of the reasons I think it's easy to
say that is that the few vegans who
still really support Peter singers
positions normally have caveat saying
look I know this is unpopular but they
normally set it up and explain
themselves quite carefully because
they're aware of again this alienation
not just separating begins from
mainstream politics but separating
vegans from the people whom you might
call the natural leaders the vegan
movement but they're not from inside
veganism it's obvious to us why Peter
Singer is not a natural leader why is
not in a leadership position or why any
claims if fpm having moral authority
would be challenged shouted down or even
just laughed at it's a little bit harder
to deal with the extent to which a
figure like Gary Franzi owning is hated
of all the names I've just mentioned if
you haven't read their work Gary France
Iona his views are the most fashionable
and the most widely accepted in 2017
whereas Peter Singer is not fashionable
and it's not widely accepted but
nevertheless someone like Gary francium
me he is still very widely hated within
veganism I wouldn't say the majority but
there are really a lot of voices across
the board and again I mean it's
indicative I was reading a formal
academic book dealing with currency and
politics and it did support the position
of Gary Francie on a the abolitionist
approach as he calls it but I noticed
that it preface it by saying look even
though many people hate this guy and
here are the reasons why they hate him
and there's a lot of controversy so the
fact that had those caveats and those
excuses showed again that there was an
awareness that at least a significant
percentage of people really just so that
makes veganism fractious fragmentary
difficult precise Outsiders understand
and really unpredictable unpredictable
intellectually unpredictable
ideologically the very people
institutions that Outsiders would assume
to be our natural leaders we are
alienated from they're not our leaders
and broadly speaking we reject their
leadership even if we have nothing
better to replace it with right so now
I'm going to digress because in some
ways things are a lot simpler than this
kind of theoretical discussion make them
seem 300 years from now 300 years into
the future do you think human beings are
still going to be wearing leather shoes
do you think human beings are still
going to raise cows in captivity kill
them take the skin off them put the skin
through a chemical tanning process and
create a material out of the misery of
these animals a material that is an
ecological disaster every single stage
of its production and the material that
believes or not also poisons the people
who wear it there's a great video from
Maude vegan I'll add a link in the
description which is a long video
discussing actually the completely non
vegan reasons why people should stop
wearing leather vegans already know but
they want to avoid wearing leather but
even if you're not vegan it turns out
there are toxic chemicals involved like
chromium
same and their impacts are not just on
the rivers next to the factories where
the leather is tanned and produced and
what have you believe it or not the
toxic chemicals used in producing
leather some of them have really
negative health impacts on people
themselves so leather is an obsolete
material now in 2007 already today it's
obsolete already you'll notice that the
US military is not using leather boots
as combat boots anymore they used to in
the past
and now they're using non leather
materials high-tech rubber and plastics
and other other materials like that that
work better and don't need to be
constantly polished given that leather
is already obsolete given that it is an
ecological disaster given that there are
issues of toxicity given that it is bad
for your health
just like meat and dairy leather is in
fact that your health believe it or not
their sides affected back that up it's
releasing chromium hexane you're
breathing in and so on strange but true
sometimes truth is given these facts
even if there were no ethical argument
for veganism we can ask ourselves would
humanity be wearing leather shoes 300
years from now and I think the answer is
no and once you have that answer once
you think to yourself that the answer is
no then you start to ask yourself well
when is the change going to happen and
where is it going to start vegans are
the people answer the change is got to
start now and it starts with me I am
going to take responsibility to the
small extent that I can or maybe if
you're a powerful an influential person
maybe do a larger set you can really
take on a leadership role you can start
a foundation you can engage in activism
lobbying public education outreach maybe
you can do more than just changing your
diet and consumer habits but at a
minimum you say it starts with me the
change starts here and now looking ahead
to that change 300 years in the future
okay
now veganism as an idea is so simple
that any child could arrive at it out of
thin air and in every civilization where
we have a well-documented history of
philosophy we have the idea of
vegetarianism or veganism something
along those lines popping up more or
less spontaneously I know of one example
within the Muslim world there may be a
couple others but generally whenever you
have a highly literate society that
leaves us written records we will get
records of intellectuals who came up
with this idea more or less on their own
and you know we have some big names in
this European philosophy we got Plutarch
even if Jordan V Peters have 100% right
in heaping scorn on you know these
figures who he mentions even if we're
all going to agree that some day like
Peter Singer is to be laughed at and
scorned I do agree I actually would go
much further than then Jordan Peterson
in his critique of Peter Singer even if
we agree that a figure will chemica
should be scoring I agree and go further
well but also have figures like Plutarch
we have some of the most influential
philosophers thinkers and authors in the
history of Western civilization and I
would go so far and claim in praising
Plutarch as a specific example I'll give
you a link below the video to his work
also um a few different websites have
from the history of vegetarianism
history of veganism and center you know
Plutarch's essay and use various
mentions couple couple times is writing
about vegetarian or veganism I think
it's really striking that the arguments
he presents for why people should not
eat meat I think they're more coherent
and more substantive than any argument I
could offer you from the history of
Buddhism in Asia I've been through the
extent literature of Buddhism Asia but
yes also in Asia different Eastern
religions have come to this incredibly
simple conclusion that basically human
beings should do the best that they can
and doing the best that you can involves
not eating meat not killing animals for
no particularly good reason
etc so Plutarch came to their conclusion
a lot of different voices within
Buddhist East Asia
that conclusion where there were
cultural and religious factors that
perhaps favorited it's not hard for
people to come to that conclusion in any
particular period of history so it's
really regrettable to hear someone like
Jordan V Peterson trying to fetishize
the voices of just a few people in his
case just Peter Singer and we'll chemica
to authors whom I despise a news
organization of a deeply flawed as if
they invented it okay as a preparatory
nor you note here as a caveat we have to
say in history of philosophy it is
tremendously common for people to arrive
at a meaningful conclusion from a
meaningless premise people can come to a
true conclusion from a false set of
premises from false reasoning happens
all the time
history of philosophy so let me be clear
veganism can still be right if Peter
Singer is wrong and vegans insiders know
that because we got all kinds of
different thinkers most of whom disagree
with Peter Singer veganism can still be
right if Plutarch is wrong but hey we'll
be real here somebody like Plutarch
Trump's Peter Singer many many centuries
earlier as an author and many times more
famous and many times more influential
many times more important so we can't
pretend that Peter Singer embedded these
things here fundamentally the argument
that Peter Singer invented veganism is
about as stupid as claiming that the
beastie boys invented hip hop randomly
or not so randomly Peter Singer ended up
being the guy to appear on the nightly
news and for a lot of us growing up the
Beastie Boys were one of the first big
stories to get on the mainstream nightly
news talking about rap music talking
about hip office Your Honor of music for
a lot of people if they were watching
mainstream white American TV news or the
TV news in England Beastie Boys were
huge in England they might really have
this delusion that the Beastie Boys are
much more important than they were that
the Beastie Boys were the first rap
group but for an insider for someone who
cares about that your honor of music for
someone who cares about that subculture
it's completely laughable and completely
like that in the same way the emphasis
that's placed here on Peter Singer is
completely laughable and there's no
explanation for why so much emphasis is
put on real chemica now my channel at
sir sir-sir in Carter s to Plutarch why
would will kim laka who's heard of
vocalic on I have on my channel I've
done a book review of his work I had two
videos very harshly condemning his book
one more politely one more harshly and
honestly condemning it I can give those
links below this video to why would will
chemica be more important in this
discussion than Pluto even if we're just
using that one name of one major famous
ancient figure who presented a sustained
and coherent argument for the innocent
because Plutarch gets into if you
actually read you know whose arcs si
from morali on the morality of a
vegetarian or vegan diet he gets into
many of the same arguments and examples
that we still use that we still hear in
discussions about veganism today he
points out that human beings don't have
fangs or claws or beaks he points out
that if a human being thinks that it's
really natural for the human diet to
include beef then why can't human beings
with their own teeth throttle the neck
of a cow
why can't human beings eat the meat of a
cow raw the way that wolves and lions do
all those arguments are there so it's
amazing approximately 2,000 years ago
not quite 2,000 years going to you know
these same discussions these same
debates we're ongoing and again they're
simple enough their fundamental enough
that they can arise in a vacuum they can
arise in the middle of Europe where
there isn't a major religion like
Buddhism to foster these debates anyone
can come to these conclusions by looking
around at the reality of the meatpacking
industry the reality of a slaughterhouse
the reality of a human diet and reality
of human even human biology and say hey
I'm going to question this I'm going to
come to some new conclusions and when
you come to those conclusions you look
from your fellow man and say what are
you guys all crazy you guys regard this
as
normal but as soon as an outsider
questions that assumes a freethinker
questions that as soon as a real
philosopher independently questions
those norms they start to think hey
maybe everyone including my own parents
and grandparents is crazy because they
regard meat-eating as normal but I don't
I'm going to question the normalcy of it
I'm going to challenge those norms I'm
going to try to take my morality in a
new direction okay right
even if Peter Singer is wrong it doesn't
mean that veganism is wrong and I have
to emphasize that all the time I do meet
vegans who are vegan for the wrong
reasons
who are vegan because they believe in
something supernatural that I don't
believe in you can see also my book
review or my critique of will Tuttle's
world peace diet I don't believe in will
Tuttle's approach to veganism which is a
mixed mishmash of kind of supernatural
New Age hippie nonsense a lot of which I
totally reject and I have a video
talking about that so I reject someone
like him I reject the reasoning of
someone like will chemica
I reject the reasoning of Peter Singer
and like I say we're in this bizarre
situation where the majority of vegans
reject people the Ethical Treatment of
Animals petaa they were jacked Humane
Society the United States we are in a
leaderless amorphous position we're
looking around and we feel alienated
from most of the would-be figureheads
whether we're talking about individuals
authors intellectuals institutions or
activist organizations I got a couple
more messages just this month from
people who had signed up with DXE direct
action everywhere another would be
leadership group and they were writing
and telling me that my warnings about
that group were really true and they
regretted one guy was time that he
regretted he wasted years of his life
with that vegan or organization and that
he said that the warnings on my channel
were really true and he wish he'd seen
them before you wish you'd listened
before he hadn't lost those years of his
life so there's a huge sense of
disappointment with quite a few
different organizations and authors and
intellectuals who have tried to be
leaders of the vegan movement but still
if I meet someone who is vegan for the
wrong reasons
let's say they're vegan just because
believe in a supernatural theory of
karma and that animals have magical
souls totally supernatural view I can
still respect their veganism even if I
don't respect their reasons for being
vegan and when I talk to meat eaters
what I basically ask them is why can't
you
why can't you recognize the discipline
itself
why can't you recognize the diet itself
why can't you recognize the ecological
impacts and the health impacts as good
in themselves why is it that you have to
pin it to a perfectly coherent
philosophical argument or otherwise
dismiss it as nothing worth I can
respect vegans for their veganism even
if they've come to that conclusion for a
series of reasons that are wrong or
deeply flawed or that are from my
perspective nonsensical right um
somebody every so often people ask me
what about this other personality on
YouTube what about this other vegan
leader the last couple of some
particular example who is bad or deeply
flawed Melissa but even though this
person is flawed even though their
arguments are wrong they've still led
others to convert to veganism and I say
back then yeah but you know what I've
met people who became vegan because of a
car crash it doesn't mean that car
crashes are good you can become vegan
because you witnessed a car crash
you can become vegan because you saw an
animal get hit by the side of the road
or you saw a truck full of pigs that
tipped over and the pigs are struggling
to get free a lot of people have those
shocking incidents on the side of the
road sometimes dudes pull over at a gas
station and there's a broken-down truck
that was on its way to the
slaughterhouse and had to stop and the
animals are in the back in misery and
they see that for the first time doesn't
mean car crashes are good because car
crashes convert people to veganism okay
and a lot of the would-be intellectuals
and would-be activists and would-be
leaders
on YouTube and even in the PhD wielding
respectable academic literature a lot of
those people are car crashes frankly and
I know they convert vegan people to
Vegas I know newbie
people become vegan because those
sources it doesn't mean they're good it
doesn't mean they're right and
conversely it doesn't mean I have to
disrespect you as a vegan just because I
may not agree with your reasons for
being vegan or the context of questions
and answers that led you to being vegan
in the first place
as I said recently I don't respect the
line of reasoning the basically looks at
pets dogs cats domesticate animals and
then says well all animals should be
treated this way all animals should be
pampered etc and then seeks to construe
veganism as really centered on the model
of the human pet relationship of
pampering and caring for domesticated
animals I don't believe in that I
believe in the model that instead looks
at wildlife and the status of wild
animals in a wildlife reserve says this
is the normal relationship between
humans and animals where we leave them
to have independent dignified lives
including dignified deaths that we
fundamentally have as little to do it as
possible where we don't castrate them
domesticate them declawed them and at
the same time give them a no shampoo and
earrings and colored dye in their hair I
see all that here in China we got we got
purple dogs walking the streets here
but I digress personally I am deeply
opposed to the philosophy of both will
Kym Luca and Peter Singer I am much more
opposed ironically I am more opposed to
these two examples will kill Luca and
Peter Singer than Jordan Peterson is
okay but still even if they are vegan
for the wrong reasons I can respect
their veganism as such if you are a
meat-eater why can't you and still even
if every single one of our leaders in
veganism or as wrongheaded as will kill
Luca and Peter Singer jurez detached
from reality in my biased opinion you
can see my earlier video discussing
volcano mechanics philosophy I think
you'll find it shocking
still I can ask you simply 300 years
from now in the future when you imagine
a science fiction future with all the
progress of Science and Technology 300
years from now in the future do you
imagine that human beings are going to
be wearing leather shoes and if not if
you could admit in the Star Trek Star
Wars fictional science fiction universe
300 years now if you can admit that
there and then under those circumstances
it doesn't make sense to have an animal
with its whole life on a concrete floor
under a steel shed sky to be born and
live and suffer just to die to have its
skin turned into a pair of shoes then
when does the change start to happen
because for us it starts now ah the new
yen